---
title: SBOM Concepts
weight: 20
# bookFlatSection: true
draft: false
---

# SBOM Concepts

A **Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)** is a manifest which uniquely identifies and enumerates the software dependencies contained within a codebase, build artifact, or runtime container.

A provider that offers "dynamic" SBOMs can further integrate information from vulnerability scanners to help ensure software that is known to be unsafe is not deployed.

When the dependencies of a software asset are enumerated in an SBOM, it becomes possible to track where artifacts are deployed when new vulnerabilities are discovered. This is especially useful when the SBOM is stored in a searchable database (such as Codenotary Trustcenter).

A software bill of materials is an important part of software supply chain security, because it surfaces the various artifacts that are bundled with a given software asset and enables developers to quickly identify and remove vulnerable components.

Beyond the security applications of SBOMs, they also play a role in licensing and regulatory compliance. For example, the [Software Package Data Exchange (SPDX)](https://spdx.dev/resources/learn/) is a major standard SBOM format which communicates "the components, licenses, and copyrights associated with a software package," and most developers have probably already encountered [SPDX license identifiers](https://spdx.org/licenses/) in their projects (e.g. `MIT` or `GPL-3.0-or-later`).

## Who creates an SBOM?

Ideally, every software project and build artifact would come with an SBOM attached. While that may not always be feasible, any developer can create an SBOM for their project which enumerates the dependencies of their project—and defines the relationship between those dependencies and the project.

{{< hint info >}}
**Dependency Relationships**

From [*Software Bill of Materials Elements and Considerations*](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/06/02/2021-11592/software-bill-of-materials-elements-and-considerations) by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, US Department of Commerce:

> [T]he “dependency relationship” generally refers to the idea that one component is included in another component, but could be expanded to also include referencing standards, which tools were used, or how software was compiled or built. [...] As one SBOM document notes, “[c]omponent identification is fundamental to SBOM and needs to scale globally across diverse software ecosystems, sectors, and markets.” 

{{< /hint >}}

Tools such as [Syft](https://github.com/anchore/syft) and CodeNotary's [`cas` CLI](https://cas.codenotary.com) can scan container images and codebases for libraries and other dependencies included within. When the SBOMs generated by these tools are shared with downstream consumers of a software project, they can be included in the SBOM for that project to track the provenance of each component in the entire dependency tree.

## How does it work?

**Notarization** or **Signing** is the process of creating a cryptographic signature of a software asset and, optionally, storing it in a cryptographically-verifiable immutable ledger. The signature can then be used to verify the integrity of the asset and authenticate its chain of custody.

**Authentication** is the process of verifying the integrity of a software asset by comparing its unique hash with a hash signed by a known trusted signer identity. Authentication is critical for tracking the provenance of software assets and ensuring that they have not been tampered with.

## Why does this matter?

[WIP]

- Federal mandate
- Mitigating vulnerabilities
- Transparency

## What information is included in an SBOM?

[WIP]

{{< hint info >}}
**Baseline Component Information**

The "baseline component information" of an SBOM, according to [*Software Bill of Materials Elements and Considerations*](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/06/02/2021-11592/software-bill-of-materials-elements-and-considerations) by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, US Department of Commerce:

- Supplier name
- Component name
- Version of the component
- Cryptographic hash of the component
- Any other unique identifier
- Dependency relationship
- Author of the SBOM data

{{< /hint >}}

TODO: Brief explanations of how the unique identification of a component is made.

## SBOM Formats

[WIP]

- SPDX
- CycloneDX
- Syft (briefly)

## SBOM Tools

[WIP]

- CycloneDX, Syft
- cas and vcn
